Subject verb object base clause: three targets for modification
The woman closed the door

1. (Easiest) Begin modifying phrase with a verbal - base clause verb plus -ing
    The woman closed the door, closing it with a bang.

    Can also do it with any verb plus -ing
    The woman closed the door, catching her heel on the step.

    Can also do it with any verb plus -ed
    The woman closed the door, blinded by the dust.

    Can also do it with any past participle
    The woman closed the door, driven by the wind.

2. Begin with a verbal and another modifier, an adverb for instance
    The woman closed the door grinning crazily.
    The woman closed the door moving crisply.
    The woman closed the door distracted momentarily.

3. Begin with the article plus one of the nouns (subject or object) from the base clause
    The woman closed the door, a door made of carved oak.
    The woman closed the door, the door she had never before dared to close.
    The woman closed the door, a woman eerily dressed entirely in white.
    The woman closed the door, the woman the world would soon know so well.

4. Begin with the article plus an adjective plus one of the nouns (subject or object) from the base clause
    The woman closed the door, a magnificent door.
    The woman closed the door, the ominous door.
    The woman closed the door, a magnificent woman.
    The woman closed the door, the ominous woman.

5. Begin with the article plus an adjective plus almost any noun followed by a prepositional phrase.
    The woman closed the door, a crazy grin on her face.
    The woman closed the door, a gaping hole in its central panel.
    The woman closed the door, the billowing snow behind her.
    The woman closed the door, an awful look in her eyes.
    The woman closed the door, the silver doorknob between her thumb and index finger.

6. Begin with the article plus an appositive for one of the base clause nouns, or a noun phrase appositive for the action of the clause.

    Appositive: a noun substitute that refers to the same thing as the original noun or sense of the entire clause, but considers it from a different viewpoint.

    The woman closed the door, an enraged mother ready to confront her son's tormentors.
    The woman closed the door, a crudely framed exit to the garage.
    The woman closed the door, the only obstacle to the madman's rage.
    The woman closed the door, a determined politician ready to begin work.
    The woman closed the door, an action she would long remember and never regret.
    The woman closed the door, a clear sign on her insistence on privacy.

7.  Begin with possessive pronoun referring to either subject, object, or the sense of the entire base clause.

    The woman closed the door, its massive hinges creaking eerily.
    The woman closed the door, her massive fingers choking its doorknob.
    The woman closed the door, its doorknob helpless in the vice of her grip.
    The woman closed the door, her face a study in triumph.
    The woman closed the door, its closing her final act of rebellion.
    The woman closed the door, her effort little short of heroic.
    The woman closed the door, her decision no longer a mystery.

8. Begin with an adverb or an article plus an adverb.
    The woman closed the door, madly fleeing the swarm of wasps.
    The woman closed the door, cheerfully determined to retype her article.
    The woman closed the door, quietly securing its three different locks.
    The woman closed the door, carelessly slamming it behind her.
    The woman closed the door, the soothingly quiet night luring her into its darkness.

9. Begin with an article plus entirely new information including even relatively non sequiturs    The woman closed the door,
    The woman closed the door, the stormy night swallowing its solid thud.
    The woman closed the door, a radio blaring in the background.
    The woman closed the door, the ice cream cone in her hand beginning to melt.
    The woman closed the door, a threadbare coat draped over her right shoulder.
    The woman closed the door, an entire morning wasted by senseless meetings.

10. Begin with almost anything followed by a simile or metaphor that details part or all of the base clause.
    The woman closed the door, grinning like the proverbial cheshire cat.
    The woman closed the door, sounding like a thunderbolt.
    The woman closed the door, her action as fresh as a wet kiss.
    The woman closed the door, Pandora with a second chance.
    ,

